don’t know Sherlock Holmes yet,” he said; “perhaps you would not care
“Holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes--it approaches to
“Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Stamford, introducing us.
Holmes’ test, and there will no longer be any difficulty.”
Holmes, sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger.
Sherlock Holmes seemed delighted at the idea of sharing his rooms with
following morning Sherlock Holmes followed me with several boxes and
Holmes was certainly not a difficult man to live with. He was quiet
nondescript individuals put in an appearance, Sherlock Holmes used to
rose somewhat earlier than usual, and found that Sherlock Holmes had not
“What is it?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
“You would lose your money,” Sherlock Holmes remarked calmly. “As for
Sherlock Holmes rose and lit his pipe. “No doubt you think that you are
Sherlock Holmes sniffed sardonically. “Lecoq was a miserable bungler,”
“You mean the retired sergeant of Marines,” said Sherlock Holmes.
“For Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” he said, stepping into the room and handing
“Commonplace,” said Holmes, though I thought from his expression that he
last, interrupting Holmes’ musical disquisition.
I had imagined that Sherlock Holmes would at once have hurried into the
Holmes glanced at me and raised his eyebrows sardonically. “With two
“You did not come here in a cab?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
occurred. Holmes walked in, and I followed him with that subdued feeling
Sherlock Holmes approached the body, and, kneeling down, examined it
“You’re sure it doesn’t simplify them?” observed Holmes. “There’s
Sherlock Holmes chuckled to himself, and appeared to be about to make
you to laugh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes. You may be very smart and clever, but
Sherlock Holmes’ smallest actions were all directed towards some
Holmes took a note of the address.
“Poison,” said Sherlock Holmes curtly, and strode off. “One other thing,
Holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office, whence he dispatched a
“You amaze me, Holmes,” said I. “Surely you are not as sure as you
Holmes took a half-sovereign from his pocket and played with it
Rance gave a violent jump, and stared at Sherlock Holmes with the utmost
Holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the constable.
“What sort of a man was he?” asked Sherlock Holmes.
“His face--his dress--didn’t you notice them?” Holmes broke in
“That will do,” cried Holmes. “What became of him?”
“The blundering fool,” Holmes said, bitterly, as we drove back to our
tired out in the afternoon. After Holmes’ departure for the concert, I
no easy matter, either for Holmes or myself. His quiet self-confident
the pistol the table had been cleared, and Holmes was engaged in his
As he spoke there was a sharp ring at the bell. Sherlock Holmes rose
Sherlock Holmes sharply.
Holmes sprang to his feet the moment that she was gone and rushed into
hardly slammed behind our visitor before Holmes had descended the stair.
“Old woman be damned!” said Sherlock Holmes, sharply. “We were the old
left Holmes seated in front of the smouldering fire, and long into the
Sherlock Holmes and I read these notices over together at breakfast, and
“‘Tention!” cried Holmes, in a sharp tone, and the six dirty little
out of a dozen of the force,” Holmes remarked. “The mere sight of an
“My dear fellow,” he cried, wringing Holmes’ unresponsive hand,
Sherlock Holmes gave a sigh of relief, and relaxed into a smile.
the mind. You will appreciate that, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, for we are both
“You do me too much honour,” said Holmes, gravely. “Let us hear how you
“Yes,” said Holmes; “by John Underwood and Sons, 129, Camberwell Road.”
“To a great mind, nothing is little,” remarked Holmes, sententiously.
“Smart--very smart!” murmured Sherlock Holmes.
Holmes, when you come upon the right scent--a kind of thrill in your
“It’s quite exciting,” said Sherlock Holmes, with a yawn. “What happened
“Very,” said Holmes.
“Well done!” said Holmes in an encouraging voice. “Really, Gregson, you
with Sherlock Holmes, for on perceiving his colleague he appeared to be
stared in silence at Sherlock Holmes, whose lips were compressed and his
“We have been hearing Gregson’s view of the matter,” Holmes observed.
 remarked Holmes.
even before Sherlock Holmes answered.
I glanced at Holmes on hearing the description of the murderer, which
“And there was nothing else?” Holmes asked.
Sherlock Holmes sprang from his chair with an exclamation of delight.
“Give them here,” said Holmes. “Now, Doctor,” turning to me, “are those
“Precisely so,” answered Holmes. “Now would you mind going down and
“I will now cut one of these pills in two,” said Holmes, and drawing his
Holmes’ earnest demeanour had so far convinced us that we all sat in
Holmes had taken out his watch, and as minute followed minute without
Sherlock Holmes drew a long breath, and wiped the perspiration from his
“All this seems strange to you,” continued Holmes, “because you failed
Holmes,” he said, “we are all ready to acknowledge that you are a smart
Thus pressed by us all, Holmes showed signs of irresolution. He
“Good boy,” said Holmes, blandly. “Why don’t you introduce this pattern
“Very good, very good,” said Holmes, smiling. “The cabman may as well
jangling of metal, and Sherlock Holmes sprang to his feet again.
to realize it. I have a vivid recollection of that instant, of Holmes’
the prisoner wrenched himself free from Holmes’s grasp, and hurled
before he got quite through, Gregson, Lestrade, and Holmes sprang upon
“We have his cab,” said Sherlock Holmes. “It will serve to take him to
me to the police-station,” he remarked to Sherlock Holmes. “My cab’s at
proposition rather a bold one; but Holmes at once took the prisoner at
“You had better come with me,” said Holmes to the two detectives.
information,” Sherlock Holmes said at last. “Who was your accomplice who
“Not a doubt of that,” said Holmes heartily.
“Gregson and Lestrade will be wild about his death,” Holmes remarked, as
Holmes, smiling at my surprise. “The proof of its intrinsic simplicity
apprehended, it appears, in the rooms of a certain Mr. Sherlock Holmes,
“Didn’t I tell you so when we started?” cried Sherlock Holmes with a
“Whatever have you been doing with yourself, Watson?” he asked in
“Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” said Stamford, introducing us.
between the ‘White Hart’ Tavern and Holland Grove. Apply Dr. Watson,
“Does Dr. Watson live here?” asked a clear but rather harsh voice. We
“Ah, I’ll tell you all about it. Of course, Doctor Watson, this is
the old hunter’s own account, as duly recorded in Dr. Watson’s Journal,
